and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show I'm your host
Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't done
so yet check out my weekly email where
I'm sharing actual website and marketing
tips useful podcasts free goodies
resources and more to kick off your week
with a bang each and every Monday why
not give it a shot over at business
growth dot emails
joining me today I've got Grant Duncan
Grant is the VP of marketing over at
zingtree Grant well welcome to the show
sir how are we hi there nice to be here
thanks for having me no worries man so
we're gonna be talking about how
companies can cut their paid spot search
spend by about 50 which I am very
excited to talk about because I want to
do it I'm sure a heck of a lot of the
marketers business owners and such
tuning in a thinking this sounds pretty
interesting so
good how the heck can we can we reduce
our budget by 50 first and foremost is
it really possible to cut it by that
much
yeah so this is what I have done at
zingtree uh recently I've been here
about four months and it was one of the
first initiatives I took on
now every company might have a different
percentage for what they actually find
would be valuable to cut but my hunch is
that most companies are overpaying on
paid search
one of the key ideas here is thinking
about what types of keywords you're
bidding on are you going for primarily
the high intent keywords or are you also
bidding on uh low or middle
um funnel or intent keywords right okay
for for us
we wanted to focus on the high intent
keywords and this is in line with some
of what you hear around capturing Demand
versus creating demand
for us we want paid search to be a
channel primarily about capturing demand
the people who are already in market and
searching online for something like what
you have to offer and you're saying hey
come come consider us too
they're probably already aware of maybe
one or two other vendors and you're
trying to throw your name in the Hat by
putting you at the top of the search
term
so I'll speak to our example first and
can broaden it from there
sure in in analyzing this for us
what we were able to find is first we
were able to connect our data for the
first time from ad conversion to lead to
op all the way through to close one so
now we were able to see what ads from
Google and Bing actually produced
opportunities and closed One deals for
us
um HubSpot has native fields to be able
to do this such as the drill down one
and two Fields depending on your setup
with HubSpot or another kind of
marketing Automation and CRM system it
may be different fields but really
you're looking for the utms to be able
to do this you want to be able to find
the UTM term and find that it was
related to paid search and then make
sure that is mapped all the way through
from the keyword
on the lead to the opportunity and then
to closed one
so for us we were able to do that
thankfully my predecessors had set the
system up in such a way that it was
possible to do this analysis
you might be able to do it
retrospectively as well in manipulating
some of the data
but this was the first time we were
really looking at it in this way for us
and when we did this I looked at the
past 12 months of data and found that
many keywords had never produced an
opportunity or a closed one deal right
so that meant we were spending
lots of money on keywords that were
never actually turning into something of
value for the sales team and for the
company
now I know some people might think like
well
um
bidding on low intent terms on Google
they maybe come to you for that and then
might come back later
I think that is a possibility to do that
but for us we are focused on wanting to
think about what are the high intent
ones where it's a little more direct
response like someone comes to you and
they already have intent for what you're
caring about
uh and for those that's where we didn't
find that many keywords for us it was
about 25 keywords out of the many that
we had bid on over the last year
and even less of those 25 had actually
turned in to a close one deal
um and so we took those and said okay
let's stop spending on these other
keywords which saved us about 50 of our
paid search budget
now the nice thing is for us once we did
this
it actually did not hurt our pipeline
creation the month after we actually had
10 000 more in pipeline uh than the
previous month in doing this
nice yeah and the key thing for why
we're not going for those low intent
terms on paid search is that
um
I would rather spend that kind of money
on something like paid social or another
marketing initiative where we are
helping move people from solution
unaware to being solution aware I think
that's better done in something like a
LinkedIn or Facebook feed rather than
trying to have them click a blog post
that you have to educate them on some
subject pay 100 to 300 plus dollars for
that click of course depending on your
company and then hope that later they do
some more clicks maybe click on one of
your high intent words later in a month
or two and then convert
so it's kind of looking at a the overall
cap that we're spending and wanting to
redistribute
the
um
the budget to a different type of model
got it Grant that's interesting there's
a lot to unpack there as well so before
and you've you've given away kind of
some of the some of the strategy which I
like as well so just for any of the
audience that is tuning in that's not
familiar with some of the analogies some
of the terminologies that we're using
paid search are we talking specifically
Google ads on Google are we talking Bing
search as well or is it is it namely
Google
so we were running Google and Bing ads
uh I'm sure everyone on your show knows
this already but it's uh typically like
the sponsored search results at the top
of some search you're saying hey I I
don't have enough SEO juice to
organically rank at the top of this page
but I want to make sure that I can get
off the top of this page anyway so for
us
um we're doing Google and Bing Bing
obviously has I think it's something
only like three percent of the traffic
you you might know better but
um that three percent of the traffic is
probably skewed to those that are using
PCS
which is a good amount of Min market and
Enterprise companies
um so it still can be valuable uh
eyeballs to capture yeah yeah yeah for
sure especially the organizations that
kind of looked into it kind of happening
on their system like pre-set up okay so
before we get a bit more actionable and
we break down some of these strategies
how important do you think paid search
is
in terms of B2B right now so how how
much of an emphasis or even like how
much of a percentage of marketing spend
do you think should go into paid search
and your thoughts
for most companies my hunch is that it
will be very valuable for them
I think that's because for most
companies there is going to be some
percent where people are searching your
terms CRM software or
um call center scripting software or
whatever it is and
they have a lot of interest to try to
solve that pain that they're looking for
right then and so for you you can get to
being considered by them through paid
search
ideally
they would already know about you and
would just directly search your company
name in Google but for most companies
they don't have that kind of brain
awareness yet most of us are not a sales
force or a game site or these other very
big well-known companies yeah so
it's valuable to be considered in that
way
the nice thing though is because paid
search is typically more of a direct
response Channel
um where they see an ad and they're more
likely to click through
look at let's say two to ten pages on
your website probably gonna go to the
initial page they came on look at your
pricing page maybe customer stories
product and then they might decide hey
I'd like to request a demo here I want
to talk with someone in in sales
um
going through that process is valuable
for them and from the marketer side
because it's more direct response in
this way you can look and see okay
um I had this many clicks
costing this many dollars to get me this
many opportunities so I can have a cost
per opportunity
uh ratio there and then you could think
about your opt to closed one rate and
you could say it cost me this much
dollars in advertising to get me one
customer which pays me X dollars so then
you can look okay is this a good ratio
is the business willing to pay this much
and for most companies that are bidding
on high intent terms it's probably going
to be a good enough ratio assuming you
have a
um a decent sized uh ACV product
got it do you think there's any
companies that send the B2B space where
paid search shouldn't be considered or
at least early on
good question
if you don't have much of a budget then
it might be something not to consider so
as an example I had a fun side project
midnights and weekends in the past for a
travel app it was a flight deals app
unfortunately it launched in April 2020
so let me think about it not the best
time then yeah the market went away but
for us uh you know this is a side thing
uh with a friend and I and we didn't
want to invest thousands of dollars into
advertising when we're still trying to
prove out the idea so at certain stages
when you don't have budget
it's going to be better to say hey I
don't want to I don't want to spend on
paid search
for larger companies it's probably
valuable to have this as part of your
um marketing growth stack
that said if
if the payback period isn't good enough
for you then in your situation it's
probably not going to be worth it and
most others I would say it is
the one other situation that it might
not be as valuable for is if you're
creating a new category and it is very
different than anything else so there's
basically no Search terms for what
you're doing
in that case you're going to be spending
on low intent uh terms which then is
probably going to be uh hard to get that
pay back
I still think most category creation
companies will have some similar enough
terms uh that people can be searching
this and then find what you're doing
relevant but that might be one other
situation
yeah yeah do you think were you saying
go for Branded search then like if
you're in a category that doesn't have
the demand there I.E you're not in a
space like CRM or you're not an agency
or you're not a service where tons of
people are searching for that directly
on Google do you think you should go
after the brands in your space already
are on like branded terms
uh to be frank I have a lot of
conflicted feelings about branded terms
you wouldn't like my recent podcast
well I listened to your uh your most
recent published one but
um maybe this is a new one oh no this is
going out today the data recording so I
don't think it's actually out yet okay
got it
um
the reason I feel conflicted about it is
because
uh we pay for our branded search so when
someone searches zingtree we are we are
paying for those terms so that we can
show up in place number one a lot of
companies do this the reason we're doing
this is because we have competitors
bidding on our uh terms and so
uh if enough competitors do that you to
an uninformed uh Searcher might actually
show up as like a fourth or fifth place
on on the Google uh search page which
kind of disadvantages you
um if someone doesn't have a really high
intent for searching you exactly
that said there was a study done years
ago with eBay where they brought data
scientists in from outside eBay and they
tested turning off branded like you know
your company branded uh Search terms and
seeing the impact that it had for eBay
they could track it all the way through
to revenue and it made no impact
so for them they were spending a ton of
money
on these terms uh their branded terms
that were actually just a sinkhole of
money
so I think that's why I feel conflicted
about this we probably
could test and see uh if we turn off our
branded terms does it make an impact but
I also acknowledge we don't have the
same statistical sample size that eBay
does to really test if this can work
I think it's interesting in fact without
spilling the beans too much on the
podcast I recorded earlier is the way I
look at it is in the B2B space if a
prospective buyer is about to invest in
a high ticket piece of software that
might cost their organization thousands
of dollars a month and let's say your
organization's built some trust them
maybe they've done some Google searches
on you see new top ads organic listing
whatever and they've also seen you and
linked their LinkedIn feed maybe you've
been putting out some case studies and
they've been enjoying those so they
search your brand Direct on Google fine
but in the ads the sponsors section at
the top they say they see an ad that's
for a competitor that says comparing
options why not stack us up to see how
to see how we fare and they might think
well why not I mean our board has said
we've got to compare two to three
vendors this is an easy click they've
got a nice comparison landing page I'm
going to fill in my details see what
these guys have got to offer I kind of
see that that might work what do you
think
right I mean uh
that reason is why I'm still paying for
our own brand new keywords
uh I'm not I'm not ready yet to uh to
turn it off because of that exact
example idea
um now we are not bidding on competitor
keywords yet
um but that's something in our roadmap
we just need to build out the right kind
of pages so that we have a high quality
score I'm about to test out for us I
don't know how it's going to fare in the
agency world but um we'll see yeah we'll
pull back in a couple months yeah I was
gonna say you should uh share that out
in the past doing competitor
um
campaigns
it can work but the cost is still often
much higher so then it becomes like is
this worth it
with the budget I have would I rather
deploy this budget to something else or
am I willing to take this higher cost to
do it yeah so with all that said let's
say you've been given a marketing spend
of I don't know 20 10 20 grand a month
in the world of marketing there's so
much you can invest it on as a B2B
organization
um for example yes some might be paid
search some might be review sites which
was sponsored listings arguably pretty
good too
um SEO demand gen I mean how would you
what kind of split would you put on on
the paid search fronts if you say had 20
grand a month
is this 20 grand uh dedicated for paid
Media or any kind of marketing this is
any kind of marketing I'm going to say
to make it a bit tougher okay
um so let's assume the company has a
website and they like their design
um
I think there are some fundamental
building blocks that are very important
like the website having
um a design framework
messaging and positioning content
related to that
if you don't have those things I would
start with those and spend the budget
there because you could put out all the
ads you want whether on paid search or
paid social or a lot of working
communities but if what you're saying
isn't resonating then
that that's just going to be a turn off
right there and if the design isn't
fitting the messaging then that's
probably going to be an issue as well so
I think there are some building blocks
there that
are most important but let's say those
building blocks are in place from there
I would say I would probably start with
paid search for your high intent terms
and
um I guess I'm also assuming you have
some marketing technology systems in
place like uh marketing automation
system and a CRM and you know uh basic
things like that
um
but I would start with paid search with
the high intent ones that you think are
really related to
your product so
you know thinking about what is it your
term plus software is going to be a
common one for many companies
I would test that out probably well you
can kind of estimate
um
with Google search console or Google ads
to get an estimate for
how many searches might there be for
these terms and then from there you
could say okay that probably means I'm
going to be spending
I don't know ten thousand dollars on uh
paid search to start
I would probably just start with Google
and then roll to Bing after after you've
proved what can work there
it's very easy and being as as you and
probably most listeners know you can
basically copy your whole Google ads
configuration into Bing with a few
clicks inside of Bing so it's really
beneficial to set everything up
correctly in Google ads and then just
say okay let's mirror this
now we still have 10K left over in this
scenario
um and this is where I would probably go
to paid social and go to an educational
approach that is shooting for
distribution and reach so you're not
necessarily trying to get the highest
click-through rate on these ads or get
like a form fill to an ebook or
something
um you're trying to get people your your
target audience to become aware of who
you are
uh and think about doing this where
let's say you create for one month with
10K you could probably have
um 10 to 20 ads created whether in-house
through designer or you pay uh outside
designer create these ads that are
educational in nature and you attempt to
show these to your target audience
uh like 7 to 11 times frequency
the idea here is you're educating them
on your message over time and
um
this helps them become aware of who you
are so this is what I did when I started
at Zing tree early on yeah we went from
my guess is maybe two percent of our uh
target market knew about us through paid
search or like one event we'd gone to on
trade show maybe through some word of
mouth and
uh after the first month we have reached
our target audience
on an average of seven times and 30
percent of that audience had seen us
that average of seven times so
essentially going from call it two
percent or less to 30 percent now know
about us uh through these ads
so that can obviously pay great
dividends when you think about
creating that awareness and building
that demand from a top of funnel
perspective did that then increase your
branded search
um I believe it did I'd have to double
check but
um I know that
for our higher intent pages I believe
uh direct traffic and branded organic
and paid search did go up through this
okay okay
interesting stuff so
that's that is the split now we were
talking about right at the start the
that you wanted to when you did this for
your own organization that you are
focusing on high intent Search terms
content keywords so what we mean by that
is basically people that want to talk to
cells right here right now not people
earlier in the funnel that might be
looking up things like how to do X or
best ways to do why
um
what about in the middle of the funnel
or maybe three quarters in the funnel
where they're comparing X versus y like
I don't know crm1 versus crm2 or that
kind of stuff do you ever go after that
kind of stuff in ads
I would put the crm1 versus crm2 in that
competitive bucket and that is on our
road map to start yeah but for us uh we
haven't built relevant web pages for
those yet so I I don't want to start
spending knowing that they would go to a
generic product page
um but for companies that do have that
built and I've done this in the past I
do think that can be valuable
um when you start to get into people
just
um
trying to educate themselves and it's
less like high intent like I wanna you
know I'm searching for this type of
software
um
or this type of automation
then I'd be more hesitant to spend there
yeah yeah that's fair I mean um but I'd
also say companies could try it out and
then see what is the payback look like
um how do we spend and how many
opportunities do we get from this
because
for a certain company maybe it'll work
great
yeah I mean I suppose it depends how
much brand you've built up right like if
people are comparing you to a to another
leader in your market then you must have
built up a fair amount of demand through
not just paid ads but other channels
social organic stuff maybe a podcast
maybe you're you're doing other groups
and whatever so it's not really
something unless you're fairly well
established organization you're probably
not getting compared so until you get to
that stage it's probably not going to be
that that worthwhile but Grant let's
let's double down on kind of the the
strategy and feel free to use your own
company as an example so when we're
reviewing let's say we're already
already running Google ads we're already
doing paid search when we're getting
into this which you alluded to at the
start what are some of the main things
we should be looking at for what we
should keep in the campaign and what we
should cut out so we can yeah reduce our
produce our page spend by whatever
percentage that may be 50 maybe a bit
less and then also make sure we're
actually getting maximum returns in
terms of people converting on a website
yeah
um Sam keenly from refined Labs has a
good framework to do this that he's
posted about on his LinkedIn but I would
suggest analyzing your
CRM data and data from Google ads as
well as being if you're doing that and
essentially you can map out by keyword
how much have we spent on that keyword
how many leads have we gotten from it
how many opportunities how many closed
One deals and you can map this out in
um like a Google sheet so you can
imagine
um something like
uh call center script software as a
keyword and then you say okay we got X
number of leads and then we got a fewer
number of opportunities from that and
um fewer number of closed one from that
and you do that for all of your keywords
for many companies this is going to be
hundreds of keywords right but you can
pull reports from these systems that
will help you do this in a more
um automated fashion
and then manually add in like what was
the cost for the keyword you might need
to combine spreadsheets depending on how
your system is set up
um then you can start to add on
calculated Fields like what was the
pipeline to spend ratio here how much
revenue did these closed One deals or
ARR did these produce once the ARR to
spend ratio
um
what's the the payback period for these
ads and you'll have this Google sheet
and then this will help you be able to
decide more easily let's let's keep
spending on these ones let's turn off
these and then for those that have
produced the closed One deals and
potentially the opportunities
what you can do then is say Okay I want
to try to maximize how much I'm showing
up on these terms
um
to try to keep it in general terms for
people not in Google ads every day you
can basically think about trying to be
there every time this keyword shows up
and so you can up your bid
to say I'm willing to spend more to make
sure I'm showing up every time rather
than showing up at the bottom of the
page which a lot of people don't ever
scroll to so instead of just spending
what you're spending you might even want
to double down and say let's spend more
on these because we know these are
actually driving results for us
interesting so with the Google sheet
format that you just laid out to
actually work out which keywords are
producing results in short which ones
are driving profitable revenue for your
organization
um how accurate is this because some
people not everyone's going to convert
on their first touch point right we know
that attribution is a funny old game and
that some people yes they might search
directly for in your case maybe call
center script software go to your
website check out your pages like I said
pricing case studies reviews
testimonials then yeah I'm going to get
a demo some people might not some people
might clappily click on your website
take 50 bucks or however much that cost
per click is head to another competitor
to head to head to Facebook then log off
for the day and then a few weeks later
they might go back to your site because
they remembered you or they saw your ad
in LinkedIn and then they might convert
so how much should we take into account
that the kind of the attribution of
these is a bit off and is there like a
percentage you should think well this is
probably accurate to about 75 then the
rest of it we should kind of take with a
pinch of salt
I don't think I have an exact percentage
in mind but what you're asking is a
great question attribution is definitely
not perfect
um that's why I think it can be helpful
to look over a long period of time so
let's say like 6 or 12 or even longer
months and that should hopefully filter
out some of the
um the flukes that happen that don't get
picked up in attribution software
that said if there are some keywords in
there that you you think like you know I
don't see an opportunity related to this
but I just have a strong gut feeling
that this is a really valuable one for
us that people do have high intent when
searching for this I mean you could
always include it and then try to see
over the next two or three months
does the data show the exact same thing
or can things change for this and people
are actually
[Music]
um
uh converting from this depending on
your uh tool set some of them will allow
you to look at different types of
attribution models as well so you could
layer in that and try to see
um do this analysis from different touch
points and then kind of add up a
multiple versions of the spreadsheet
into one
but for most companies if you're looking
over a long enough period
um it's probably going to be okay yeah I
guess the results will even out somewhat
yeah
right and like for us I just said hey if
one opportunity has been produced I want
to keep the term
which is kind of a low bar right uh it's
not even saying they went to close one
it could have been
the salesperson said yeah I think this
is a great fit and then a week later The
Ghost and nothing ever happens but for
me I'm hopeful that maybe we find one
more from this term that doesn't ghost
and turns into a a closed one deal in
the end so
um setting a low bar there can can be a
way to do this if you really are
strapped for cash you could look at just
those that have turned into closed One
deals but for us I wanted to be broader
to start yeah and from your experience
Grant do a lot of companies
have Search terms in their Google ads
accounts and Google AdWords that on
that great like do you have you heard a
lot about this kind of wastage where
people are going after maybe like we
said top of funnel searches where people
are more in the information gathering
stage or learning phase or education
phase or comparing phase do you think
that's something that is happening a lot
yeah I I can speak to the companies I've
been at
and then in talking with peers
um it does seem like this is very
prevalent
and
even as an example of joining singtry
um
seeing this from past data I think it is
an example there but this is this may be
availability heuristic where it's the
examples that I've experienced
personally and so maybe it is less
prevalent than
um
than my experience but my hunch is that
there are many others like this based on
conversations with people
what your thoughts on retargeting so if
someone if we're spending quite a hefty
amount to get someone through to our
website in the first place and like
we've discussed not everyone's going to
convert on that first touch point do you
think we should then retarget them on
the other platforms that they might go
to whether it's LinkedIn or some other
social Channel Facebook whatever
I definitely think retargeting is
valuable however I would suggest not
retargeting anyone that comes to your
web page but people that have maybe done
some more valuable actions on your
website so maybe they viewed
um the demo page or the pricing page or
um customer stories or maybe they have
seen at least X number of pages or
scrolled through 75 percent of a page or
something like that
uh I think that gives you a a smaller
subset to retarget yep but probably a
more valuable audience to go after
so I I would suggest focusing on that
because
then you missed the you can exclude kind
of the riffraff of people who just come
in your site and balance five seconds
after
um
so I think that's one area of
retargeting that's a great place to
start
from there
I think there's a lot more options to
explore so for instance if someone
engages with one of your LinkedIn
um
ads then you could double down and
retarget them with more specific
messaging
um
and you could do the same potentially
with
um Google search if they've done these
criteria or like cross-pollinate between
channels for us that's on our roadmap
yeah I'm still fairly new to zingtree
but we plan to do more of that but in
kind of a targeted way
okay cool
um Grant I think I interrupted you when
we talked about Gathering the data and
then going for the Search terms or
actually producing opportunities and
then you mentioned ramping up perhaps
the budget on the ones that are so
they're always going to appear at the
top of the search results so they're
sponsored or the ad section on Google
was there anything that we needed to add
on to that
in terms of ongoing
I think
something to keep in mind is once you do
this
it's valuable to keep evaluating over
time so on a
let's say quarterly or six month basis
re-evaluate these terms
um because maybe you've added in new
terms as you're trying new experiments
or maybe the the ones that worked in the
past are no longer working so
um continuing to reevaluate this I think
is a valuable thing to do
um
and obviously more valuable when you can
look at it over a longer period of time
to make sure you avoid those flukes like
we talked about
awesome man look Grant I really
appreciate you coming on the show thanks
very much for sharing all things paid
search it's been a useful lesson for
both myself and I'm sure many people
tuning in so with that said sir please
do tell us more about how anyone will be
wanting to learn more from yourself can
connect with you learn more and anything
you'd like to point our audience to
yeah thanks for having me on it's been a
great conversation if you want to
connect with me feel free to find me on
LinkedIn or Twitter
you can find me by searching Grant
Duncan the specific URL is Grant M
Duncan
and would love to chat with anyone
further about this if they're interested
nice one we'll put all of those in the
show notes over at business growth dot
marketing and with that thanks once
again Grant enjoyed the chat as always
if you enjoyed today's episode a quick
rating on your audio podcast Channel or
if you're on the YouTube a quick
subscribe goes a long way and it's very
much appreciated and with that we should
catch you on the next episode for more
b2p marketing actionable tips to grow
your business and grow your Revenue
catch you on the next one